README.md, before:

# CityCAT on DAFNI

[![build](https://github.com/OpenCLIM/citycat-dafni/workflows/build/badge.svg)](https://github.com/OpenCLIM/citycat-dafni/actions)

## Features
- [Uplift return period rainfall depth based on UKCP18](#return-periods)
- [Fit storm profile to rainfall event](#storm-profile)
- [Extract domain from asc files](#dem)
- [Extract buildings and green areas from gpkg and shp files](#buildings-green-areas)
- [Input discharge from a SHETran simulation](#shetran)
- Create archive of results
- Create GeoTIFF of max depth, max velocity and max depth velocity product
- Create netCDF of depths and velocities at all time steps
- [Interpolate depths to fill building gaps](#interpolate)
- [Create PNG map of max depth](#png)
- Create metadata JSON file

## Parameters
The following parameters must be provided as environment variables (in uppercase and with spaces replaced by underscores). 
See [model-definition.yml](https://github.com/OpenCLIM/citycat-dafni/blob/master/model-definition.yml) for further details.
- Rainfall mode
- Return period
- Time horizon
- Total depth
- Duration
- Post-event duration
- Size
- X
- Y
- Open boundaries
- Permeable areas
- Roof storage

## Dataslots
Data is made available to the model at the following paths. The spatial projection of all datasets is assumed to be 
British National Grid. 
- inputs/dem
- inputs/future-drainage
- inputs/buildings
- inputs/green_areas
- inputs/shetran
- inputs/flow_polygons

## Usage 
`docker build -t citycat-dafni . && docker run -v $PWD/data:/data --env PYTHONUNBUFFERED=1 --env RAINFALL_MODE=return_period --env SIZE=0.1 --env DURATION=1 --env POST_EVENT_DURATION=0 --env TOTAL_DEPTH=40 --env RETURN_PERIOD=100 --env X=258722 --env Y=665028 --env OPEN_BOUNDARIES=True --env PERMEABLE_AREAS=polygons --env ROOF_STORAGE=0 --env TIME_HORIZON=2050 --name citycat-dafni-return-period citycat-dafni`

## <a name="return-periods">Uplift return period rainfall depth based on UKCP18</a>
If `RAINFALL_MODE` is set to "return period" then the rainfall depth corresponding to the `DURATION` and `RETURN_PERIOD`
are extracted from the relevant CSV file in the `future-drainage` dataslot.
If the `TIME_HORIZON` is anything other than `baseline`, the rainfall depth is then uplifted by the percentage given
in the CSV file.

## <a name="storm-profile">Fit storm profile to rainfall event</a>
A storm profile is fitted to the rainfall total using the `DURATION` of the event and a static unit profile.
The unit profile is scaled so that its total depth matches the rainfall total for the event.

## <a name="dem">Extract domain from asc files</a>
Rasterio is used to merge and crop all asc files in the `dem` dataslot using a boundary defined by `X`, `Y` and `SIZE`.
A nodata value of -9999 is set as this is required by CityCAT.

## <a name="buildings-green-areas">Extract buildings and green areas from gpkg and shp files</a>
All shp and gpkg files in the `buildings` and `green_areas` dataslots are merged and clipped to the domain boundary 
using geopandas. Cells within building polygons are removed from the domain and infiltration is allowed at cells within 
green areas polygons.

## <a name="shetran">Input discharge from a SHETran simulation</a>
If a discharge file is present, containing flows from SHETran at every time step, in the `shetran` dataslot, this is 
read and converted to the required format. A file must be present in the `flow_polygons` dataslot, containing the 
areas within which discharge will enter the domain. The discharge is magnified in CityCAT by the number of cell 
boundaries that fall within the flow polygons so it is usually necessary to only encompass a single boundary.

## <a name="interpolate">Interpolate depths to fill building gaps</a>
The gaps in the domain created where buildings exist are filled using inverse distance weighting and a new GeoTIFF is created.
This was carried out to allow point geometries to be used when calculating impacts.
If the original results are used without interpolation, then there is likely to be missing data at asset locations.

## <a name="png">Create PNG map of max depth</a>
Rasterio is used to create a 1280 x 960 pixel map of maximum depth.
This image is intended to enable quick interpretation of results but it may not always provide a good visualisation as 
the colour scale has a maximum value of 1m.

Commit message:

Add DISCHARGE parameter and remove shetran slot

README.md, after:

# CityCAT on DAFNI

[![build](https://github.com/OpenCLIM/citycat-dafni/workflows/build/badge.svg)](https://github.com/OpenCLIM/citycat-dafni/actions)

## Features
- [Uplift return period rainfall depth based on UKCP18](#return-periods)
- [Fit storm profile to rainfall event](#storm-profile)
- [Extract domain from asc files](#dem)
- [Extract buildings and green areas from gpkg and shp files](#buildings-green-areas)
- [Input discharge from a SHETran simulation](#shetran)
- Create archive of results
- Create GeoTIFF of max depth, max velocity and max depth velocity product
- Create netCDF of depths and velocities at all time steps
- [Interpolate depths to fill building gaps](#interpolate)
- [Create PNG map of max depth](#png)
- Create metadata JSON file

## Parameters
The following parameters must be provided as environment variables (in uppercase and with spaces replaced by underscores). 
See [model-definition.yml](https://github.com/OpenCLIM/citycat-dafni/blob/master/model-definition.yml) for further details.
- Rainfall mode
- Return period
- Time horizon
- Total depth
- Duration
- Post-event duration
- Size
- X
- Y
- Open boundaries
- Permeable areas
- Roof storage
- Discharge

## Dataslots
Data is made available to the model at the following paths. The spatial projection of all datasets is assumed to be 
British National Grid. 
- inputs/dem
- inputs/future-drainage
- inputs/buildings
- inputs/green_areas
- inputs/flow_polygons

## Usage 
`docker build -t citycat-dafni . && docker run -v $PWD/data:/data --env PYTHONUNBUFFERED=1 --env RAINFALL_MODE=return_period --env SIZE=0.1 --env DURATION=1 --env POST_EVENT_DURATION=0 --env TOTAL_DEPTH=40 --env RETURN_PERIOD=100 --env X=258722 --env Y=665028 --env OPEN_BOUNDARIES=True --env PERMEABLE_AREAS=polygons --env ROOF_STORAGE=0 --env TIME_HORIZON=2050 --name citycat-dafni-return-period citycat-dafni`

## <a name="return-periods">Uplift return period rainfall depth based on UKCP18</a>
If `RAINFALL_MODE` is set to "return period" then the rainfall depth corresponding to the `DURATION` and `RETURN_PERIOD`
are extracted from the relevant CSV file in the `future-drainage` dataslot.
If the `TIME_HORIZON` is anything other than `baseline`, the rainfall depth is then uplifted by the percentage given
in the CSV file.

## <a name="storm-profile">Fit storm profile to rainfall event</a>
A storm profile is fitted to the rainfall total using the `DURATION` of the event and a static unit profile.
The unit profile is scaled so that its total depth matches the rainfall total for the event.

## <a name="dem">Extract domain from asc files</a>
Rasterio is used to merge and crop all asc files in the `dem` dataslot using a boundary defined by `X`, `Y` and `SIZE`.
A nodata value of -9999 is set as this is required by CityCAT.

## <a name="buildings-green-areas">Extract buildings and green areas from gpkg and shp files</a>
All shp and gpkg files in the `buildings` and `green_areas` dataslots are merged and clipped to the domain boundary 
using geopandas. Cells within building polygons are removed from the domain and infiltration is allowed at cells within 
green areas polygons.

## <a name="shetran">Input discharge boundary condition</a>
If the `DISCHARGE` parameter is greater than zero, a CityCAT input file will be created which adds a boundary condition
to the simulation, corresponding to the total amount of discharge. A file must be present in the `flow_polygons` 
dataslot, containing the areas within which discharge will enter the domain. The discharge is magnified in CityCAT by 
the number of cell boundaries that fall within the flow polygons, so it is  necessary to only encompass a single 
boundary, or to divide the discharge value by the number of cell boundaries covered.

## <a name="interpolate">Interpolate depths to fill building gaps</a>
The gaps in the domain created where buildings exist are filled using inverse distance weighting and a new GeoTIFF is created.
This was carried out to allow point geometries to be used when calculating impacts.
If the original results are used without interpolation, then there is likely to be missing data at asset locations.

## <a name="png">Create PNG map of max depth</a>
Rasterio is used to create a 1280 x 960 pixel map of maximum depth.
This image is intended to enable quick interpretation of results but it may not always provide a good visualisation as 
the colour scale has a maximum value of 1m.
